# Minimum-Edit-Distance
The Minimum Edit Distance is a measure of how similar two strings are to one another. One of the many processes designed to calculate this similarity is the 'minimum edit distance' algorithm. The minimum edit distance is the number of operations needed to change one string into another. Typically, the three types of operations are insertion, deletion, and substitution. When we assign a cost to each one of these operations, we can sum the total number of operations with their respective costs or weights to determine the distance between two strings. The particular implementation of the MED algorithm in this project uses an alternative Levenshtein distance by assigning a cost of 1 to insertion, 1 to deletion, and 2 to substitution.

The alignment path is computed by populating a table, cell by cell, with values based on the values in the surrounding cells. First, the left column is filled with numbers up to the length of the source string, and then the bottom row is filled with numbers up to the length of the target string. For each remaining column, the cell value is calculated row by row by finding the smallest number from the surrounding cells when their respective operation is applied to them. The top right hand cell then holds the minimum edit distance.

This project defined a 'Cell' class to populate the table in order to compute a backtrace. The Cell class has three boolean instance variables, Left, Diagonal, and Bottom. The boolean that corresponds to the cell which resulted in the new value is flipped to True. Then, starting from the top right corner, a backtrace can be calculated by outputting the letters corresponding to the cell along with the operation. When the algorithm finishes, it prints out the table and the string alignment.
